so let's take a look at
the packing in a face-centered cubic
structure
so i've got here just kind of a little
demo that i wrote um
showing the face centered structure
here's
for a single unit cell for example so
you can see the cubic structure
and you can see that in the face of this
cube
you've got an atom okay so a face
centered cubic structure
so we're going to add on a bunch more
unit cells so we can kind of build up
our crystal
and one of the things i want you to
notice is that depending upon
which direction we look at this crystal
we're going to have a different
placement
of atoms so for example
i just want to highlight the faces
so you can see the faces have this
square
geometry it looks like the 5 on the die
but if i was to look say along one of
the
diagonals of this structure i'm going to
slice it in a different direction
you can see now i've got again a nice
plane of atoms
but now they've got a triangular or if
you want to look in here you'll see that
there's a hexagonal
pattern to the structure okay
so each direction that we were to slice
this material let me slice it yet again
one more direction
this is now cutting off an edge you can
see that
edge now also forms a plane when i cut
that edge off
and my atoms have again another
symmetry that you don't see in the
others and different packing
this is a very low density packing in
fact let me go ahead and remove
the atoms so i can just look at the
planes
you can see this is a pretty low density
of atoms
they're not even touching in this
direction it's just like rows
then if i look at the face this is a
higher
packing density than than this one and
blue
that's our five here on our die
that's our face and then if we go ahead
and look at that
slice through the body through the
diagonal
cutting off the diagonal corner we now
have the
closest packed plane with that
nice hexagonal symmetry or
triangular symmetry depending on how you
describe this
this looks a lot like the packing of
billiard balls
right so if you take a look here
these atoms this would be your billiard
ball rack
so this is the most efficient packing in
two dimensions
all right so what we're going to learn
in the
next time in the next video is how to
describe
each of these different planes we want
some way of describing them
we're going to use these special indices
and so
we mentioned the one zero zero this is a
face
the one one zero is cutting off this
edge
and what's called a one one one is
cutting off a corner
but we'll get to that okay
and this demo also allows us to take a
look at the body centered cubic
you can see that the packing on those
planes are completely different
than what we had on the face centered
everything is much more open
and now this blue one this one one zero
now looks like the best packing in 2d in
fact this is the highest packing in the
body centered system
right in the face centered it was the
red plane
one one one that had the highest packing
so we'll come back to this a few times
as we go through
the course